What's New In DevTools (Chrome 85) (#8825)
google/WebFundamentals: src/content/en/updates/2020/06/devtools.md

book_path: /web/updates/_book.yaml
description: Style editing for CSS-in-JS frameworks, Lighthouse 6.0, new JavaScript features, and more.

{# wf_updated_on: 2020-06-24 #}
{# wf_published_on: 2020-06-24 #}
{# wf_tags: chrome85, devtools, devtools-whatsnew #}
{# wf_featured_image: /web/updates/images/generic/chrome-devtools.png #}
{# wf_featured_snippet: Style editing for CSS-in-JS frameworks, Lighthouse 6.0, new JavaScript features, and more. #}
{# wf_blink_components: Platform>DevTools #}

# What's New In DevTools (Chrome 85) {: .page-title }

{% include "web/_shared/contributors/jecelynyeen.html" %}

## Style editing for CSS-in-JS frameworks {: #css-in-js }

[cssom]: https://drafts.csswg.org/cssom/
[constructable]: /web/updates/2019/02/constructable-stylesheets
[shadowdom]: /web/fundamentals/web-components/shadowdom

The Styles pane now has better support for editing styles that were created with the
[CSS Object Model][cssom] (CSSOM) APIs. Many CSS-in-JS frameworks and libraries
use the CSSOM APIs under the hood to construct styles.

Styles added in JavaScript using [Constructable Stylesheets](constructable) are
also now editable. Constructable Stylesheets are a new way

> to create and distribute reusable styles when using [Shadow DOM][shadowdom].

Reviewer: We should definitely get a screenshot here

{# https://chromium.googlesource.com/chromium/src.git/+/4609670fb4303585928d9784840459f04ca91f03 #}

Chromium issue [#946975](https://crbug.com/946975)

## Lighthouse 6 in the Lighthouse panel {: #lighthouse }

[changelog]: https://github.com/GoogleChrome/lighthouse/releases/tag/v6.0.0
[lighthouse]: https://web.dev/lighthouse-whats-new-6.0/

The Lighthouse panel is now running Lighthouse 6.

> Check out [What's New in Lighthouse 6.0](lighthouse) for a summary of all the major

Reviewer: I put the What's New post up here because I would rather direct attention to that than the full release notes

changes, or the [v6.0.0 release notes](https://github.com/GoogleChrome/lighthouse/releases/tag/v6.0.0)
for a full list of all changes.

Lighthouse 6.0 introduces three new metrics to the report: Largest Contentful
Paint (LCP), Cumulative Layout Shift (CLS), and Total Blocking Time (TBT). 
LCP and CLS are 2 of Google's new [Core Web Vitals](https://web.dev/vitals/#core-web-vitals),

> and TBT is a lab measurement proxy for another Core Web Vital, First Input Delay.

Reviewer: I explained a bit further here that these are all part of Web Vitals

* Syntax highlighting for [Nullish coalescing operator](https://v8.dev/features/nullish-coalescing) - DevTools now properly pretty-prints the nullish coalescing operator in the Sources panel.

{# https://chromium.googlesource.com/devtools/devtools-frontend.git/+/80ef20871d541f5e6d789ac2679e1ecd0b2e8328 #}
{# https://chromium.googlesource.com/devtools/devtools-frontend/+/b674ea36ab2fab389e7bc57b6651f1103c0f78d0 #}
{# https://chromium.googlesource.com/devtools/devtools-frontend/+/85ae1392c509c2ea37c89b386c0123350ea53855 #}

Chromium issues [#1083214](https://crbug.com/1083214), [#1073903](https://crbug.com/1073903), [#1083797](https://crbug.com/1083797)

## New app shortcut warnings in the Manifest pane {: #app-shortcut-warnings }

[shortcuts]: https://web.dev/app-shortcuts

[App shortcuts][shortcuts] help users quickly start common or recommended tasks within a web app. 

The Manifest pane now shows warnings if:

* the app shortcut icons are smaller than 96x96 pixels
* the app shortcut icons and manifest icons are not square (as they will be ignored)

> ![App shortcut warnings](/web/updates/images/2020/06/app-shortcut-warnings.png)

Reviewer: In general you can make these screenshots look a bit more polished if you use the "how to capture a window" workflow: https://support.apple.com/en-us/HT201361

{# https://chromium.googlesource.com/devtools/devtools-frontend/+/0a6d1c0a60fe51c52b0eea46ee658e6a198f814c #}

Chromium issue [#955497](https://crbug.com/955497)

## Service worker `respondWith` events in the Timing tab {: #timing-tab }

The Timing tab of the Network panel now includes service worker `respondWith` events.
`respondWith` is the time immediately before the service worker `fetch` event handler runs to the time when the `fetch` handler's `respondWith` promise is settled. 

![service worker `respondWith`](/web/updates/images/2020/06/timing-tab.png)

{# https://chromium.googlesource.com/devtools/devtools-frontend.git/+/88bc40da7991671a52a76c91ac9a67e91839e21c #}

Chromium issue [#1066579](https://crbug.com/1066579)

> ## Consistent display of the Computed pane {: #compute-pane }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Consistent display of the Computed pane {: #computed-pane }
```

Chromium issue [#1073899](https://crbug.com/1073899)

## Bytecode offsets for WebAssembly files {: #wasm }

DevTools now uses bytecode offsets for displaying line numbers of Wasm disassembly. 
This makes it clearer that you're looking at binary data, and is more consistent with how the Wasm runtime references locations.

![Bytecode offsets](/web/updates/images/2020/06/bytecode-offset.png)

Chromium issue [#1071432](https://crbug.com/1071432)

## Line-wise copy and cut in Sources Panel {: #sources-panel }

[sources]: https://developers.google.com/web/tools/chrome-devtools/sources#edit

When performing copy or cut with no selection in the [Sources panel editor][sources], DevTools
will copy or cut the current line content. For example, in the video below,
the cursor is at the end of line 1. After pressing the cut keyboard shortcut, the
entire line is copied to the clipboard and deleted.

<video autoplay loop muted playsinline>
  <source src="/web/updates/images/2020/06/line-wise-cut.mp4" type="video/mp4">
</video>

{# https://chromium.googlesource.com/devtools/devtools-frontend.git/+/05d110464566dabd3b90e8123d3d2e33aebc9434 #}

Chromium issue [#1066415](https://crbug.com/1066415)

> ## New breakpoints icons {: #breakpoint-icons }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## New breakpoint icons {: #breakpoint-icons }
```

The **Group similar** toggle in Console Settings now applies to duplicate messages.
Previously it just applied to similar messages.

For example, previously, DevTools did not ungroup the messages `hello` even though
**Group similar** is unchecked. Now, the `hello` messages are ungrouped:

<video autoplay loop muted playsinline>
  <source src="/web/updates/images/2020/06/ungroup-similar.mp4" type="video/mp4">
</video>

{# https://chromium.googlesource.com/devtools/devtools-frontend/+/c84588184b0074cd229ae4dc496e2f11b92dc340 #}

Chromium issue [#1082963](https://crbug.com/1082963)

### Persisting **Selected context only** settings {: #maskable-icons }

The **Selected context only** settings in Console Settings is now persisted.
Previously the settings were reset every time you closed and reopened DevTools.
This change makes the setting behavior consistent with other Console Settings options.

![Selected context only](/web/updates/images/2020/06/selected-context.png)

{# https://chromium.googlesource.com/devtools/devtools-frontend/+/0c3989432b058d853ab9183354a93bca73427f12%5E%21/#F0 #}

Chromium issue [#1055875](https://crbug.com/1055875)

> ## JavaScript compilation cache information in Summary tab {:js-compilation-cache}

Author: @mathiasbynens updated to **JavaScript compilation cache** here.

Reviewer 2: Thanks! One last thing: I'm not sure if "Summary tab" is very clear, as we likely have multiple tabs named Summary. Maybe "... in Performance panel Summary tab"?

Author: Thought about that, but we also mention "Summary tab of the Performance panel" in the first line of the description. Is that sufficient?

Reviewer 2: The title is what's used in every other "What's new in DevTools" listing (e.g. https://developers.google.com/web/updates/2020/03/devtools#discover) so I'd prefer making it as clear as possible. If you keep it short:

> JavaScript compilation cache information in Performance panel

The **Group similar** toggle in Console Settings now applies to duplicate messages.
Previously it just applied to similar messages.

For example, previously, DevTools did not ungroup the messages `hello` even though
**Group similar** is unchecked. Now, the `hello` messages are ungrouped:

<video autoplay loop muted playsinline>
  <source src="/web/updates/images/2020/06/ungroup-similar.mp4" type="video/mp4">
</video>

{# https://chromium.googlesource.com/devtools/devtools-frontend/+/c84588184b0074cd229ae4dc496e2f11b92dc340 #}

Chromium issue [#1082963](https://crbug.com/1082963)

### Persisting **Selected context only** settings {: #maskable-icons }

The **Selected context only** settings in Console Settings is now persisted.
Previously the settings were reset every time you closed and reopened DevTools.
This change makes the setting behavior consistent with other Console Settings options.

![Selected context only](/web/updates/images/2020/06/selected-context.png)

{# https://chromium.googlesource.com/devtools/devtools-frontend/+/0c3989432b058d853ab9183354a93bca73427f12%5E%21/#F0 #}

Chromium issue [#1055875](https://crbug.com/1055875)

> ## Performance panel updates {: #perf-panel }

Author: @kaycebasques please help to review this new **Performance panel updates** section.

### JavaScript compilation cache information in Performance panel {:js-compilation-cache}
[JavaScript compilation cache information](https://v8.dev/blog/code-caching-for-devs) information is now always displayed in the Summary tab of the Performance panel. Previously, DevTools wouldn’t show anything related to code caching if code caching didn’t happen.

![JavaScript compilation cache information](/web/updates/images/2020/06/js-compilation-cache.png)

{# https://chromium.googlesource.com/devtools/devtools-frontend/+/bff241dc95433dccd0621c81d93aae793d46a48e #}

Chromium issue [#912581](https://crbug.com/912581)

> ### Align navigation timing in Performance panel {:nav-timing}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Navigation timing alignment in the Performance panel {:nav-timing}
```
@chybie I'm rephrasing these because "align navigation timing" sounds like an action that the user takes, whereas the more passive phrasing of "Navigation timing alignment" makes it clearer that this is a change that happened in DevTools (that doesn't require any action by the user)

> The Performance panel used to show times in the rulers based on when the recording started. This has now changed for recordings where the user navigates, where we now show ruler times relative to the navigation instead.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Performance panel used to show times in the rulers based on when the recording started. This has now changed for recordings where the user navigates, where DevTools now shows ruler times relative to the navigation instead.
```
